So let's move on here.
We're gonna start out by
talking about the humble list.
Last week on Twitter I asked people how
many kinds of lists there are in HTML.
So I will ask you all here again,
how many kinds of HTML?
We don't mean how many kinds
of tags like LI as a tag,
we mean how many kinds of lists.
Anyone wanna take a guess at that?
Online or here in person, it's a number.
How many, pardon?
>> Two.
>> Ordered list, unordered list.
>> We have one vote for two, other votes?
Concurrence, concurrence,
concurrence, okay.
Everybody in the class here is saying two.
How about online, how many kinds
of lists are we saying online?
>> Three, three, two,
three, two three, two.
>> There are four [LAUGH] there're four
in HTML that are content oriented,
there're two that
are oriented towards forms.
And so briefly for
the ones that are oriented towards forms,
there's one select element, okay?
Write that drop down that comes down, it's
really ugly, that is technically a list.
Also there's another one,
data list that you might be familiar with.
You associate data list with a blank
on the page like a text input and
when you start typing, it'll match to
whatever is in that data list, okay?
So those are two on forums,
I'm not gonna talk about it at all but for
the purpose of content four kinds of lists
and we're gonna go through them all.
So the four kinds of lists are as follows.
We have bulleted lists and
the number lists, ordered and
unordered kinds of lists and those
are the ones you're most familiar with.
That's why you all said two
cuz you kinda know those two.
Description lists which are formally
called definition lists are for
key value pairs, one of my favorite
HTML elements that are out there.
Be willing to associate two pieces
of data together, super fun.
And then menus are so
called interactive lists.
So if you are making a button bar,
button the element and
you have a series of buttons on that.
Maybe cut, copy and paste or maybe reply,
reply all, forward like an email
kind of button group, this is the way
to mark it up is with the menu, okay?
So not oriented towards text links but
oriented towards JavaScript buttons and
we're gonna talk about all of
these in a little bit detail and
we'll learn selectors along the way.
So with that let's code.
If you're following along on the website,
this is semantics-selectors.css.education,
this is the website that goes with
what we'll be covering today.
If you wanna scroll on down here,
we have just finished chapter 1.
This is our overview and prerequisites.
We took a look at some slides and here's
just some background about what you're
gonna need in order to take this course.
You can read on that on your own and test
to make sure that you have the right level
of HTML and CSS background and the kinds
of technologies that we'll be using today,
that's all that's covered here.
All right, so let's go through them for
our lists and selectors,
let us take a look at what
we have been missing.
So we're going to start with our
ordered and our unordered lists and
we'll start here with our code pen.
So just briefly because I'm sure that
a lot of you remember this although hell,
based on what I see from
Markup I don't know guys,
that's why we're going through this.
Unordered lists are just
designed to be a list of things.
They can go in any order, you can do them
in any order, you can visit them in any
order, there's no ranking implied,
it's just a group of things.
And the way you mark those
up pretty straightforward.
You start with ul for the unordered list,
you end with slash ul and
there's a bunch of LIs in between.
All that stuff about list roles and
all of that happy thing,
all that stuff is baked into this so
use it when you have a list of things.
The next one is the ordered list.
Now the ordered list is kind of fun
because it has a few additions that
the unordered list does not have.
So here's a few attributes
you probably aren't aware of.
So ordered list of course implies
that you do this thing first and
then you do this thing and
then you do this thing.
So it's a list that goes
in a very specific order.
You start with number one, then you go to
number two or it could be like a ranking
kind of thing, this is the first place,
this is the second place.
Because those numbers are significant
there are some attributes that
are associated with this that may
also be of a significance for you.
So one of these is if we said reversed,
okay?
We said reversed, notice we can
just flip our numbers right around.
So that's 3, 2 and 1 instead of 1,2 and 3.
Again, this applies when you put it in
your HTML as opposed to putting it in your
CSS, right?
Because of course you could do something
with reverse numbers, maybe in CSS or
something.
Here you're implying
that there is a reason,
you're trying to communicate
something with these numbers.
It's not just to look cool,
it is you're actually communicating
meaning behind these numbers.
So here we're putting the third
place finisher first,
followed by the second place finisher,
followed by the first place finisher.
That is the purpose of
the reversed attribute.
How many people knew about that one?
Nope, cool, super fun.
Then we have start =, some number.
So let's say we wanna
start at number 6 and.
Then it will start numbering from
number 6 right there on the page.
So that is what that HTML looks like,
the start attribute and
then you can put a number inside of it.
It'll start numbering from there.
I haven't tried to combine
that with reversed.
Combine those, does that do a thing?
Yeah, 6, 5, 4.
So you can combine those two
attributes in order to start at some
numbering go backwards.
And then the last one has to do with type.
type = something like this and
a would be for lower case letters.
Oops, I got rid of my
closing bracket there.
That's why that first bullet didn't work,
okay?
So a,b, c, right?
There's also the ability to do
Roman numerals, lowercase i.
So we have i, ii, iii.
So this type of numbering where it matters
whether these are Arabic numerals or
Roman numerals or letters,
that is important and things like law and
government where you're referring
to certain sections of code,
this becomes a really
useful way of doing that.
And again, we're communicating
meaning because we're doing it through
our HTML not our CSS, okay?
And as it says right here in the note,
unless the type of the list number matters
like legal or technical documents where
you're referencing their number or letter,
use the CSS list style property instead.
So that's how we differentiate those two,
doing it in the HTML doing it in the CSS,
all right?
And then the last one is the nested lists
and I'm sure that you all know this
one also but the number one mistake
that I see is when I teach beginners.
This is the first thing that I asked
them after we talk about lists
is notice here on line 41 we
do not have an LI after this
particular item because we
have list nested inside of it,
see how we have ol, li, li,
slash ol, and then slash li.
So the nested list needs to
be inside of a list item.
Doing this thing where we say /li, and
then close our lists like this may or
may not lead to the results that you want.
It may render just fine but it may wind
up being weird things particularly
when we get to styling with selectors and
so forth.
And may lead to other weird
things happening again,
when you get to mostly to advanced
styling types of things and
who knows what every browser is going to
do when you markup your HTML incorrectly.
So that's a few little tips there.
You can always come back to this code
pattern if you want it here for reference
or fork it to your account even better and
then you'll have it to refer to later.